
TODO list for pysmpc.

There are a number of small and large design changes listed below. In
addition to those, the source code contains a number of comments
marked with 'TODO' which document things on a more local level.

* Enforce the use of Blum primes
   The comparison only works with Blum primes, that is, primes that
   are congruent to 3 modulo 4.

* Create unit tests which randomizes network delay
   The current unit test with LoopbackRuntime are strictly sequential
   and does not capture the random delays possible with real network
   traffic.

* Benchmark Python vs. GMPY on different key sizes
   Initial tests seems to indicate that the network is the
   bottle-neck, but this should be systematically checked.

* Benchmark parallel vs. sequential execution
   Test multiplications that are forced to be done sequential:

       *
      / \
     1   *
        / \
       2   *
          / \
         3   ...


* Profile and optimize
   We need to see if the time is spend on network latency or in the
   CPU. If the latter is the case, then we could consider writing the
   inner loop in C for more speed.

* Remove program counters
   An idea for this was suggested by Thomas Mølhave: label each share
   with a tuple containing the labels of the shares that it depend on
   in addition to the operation done. Consider:

   a, b = rt.share(10)
   c = rt.mul(a,b)

   Here a and b get labels ('share', 1) and ('share', 2), and c get
   the label ('mul', ('share', 1), ('share', 2)). If we continue with

   d = rt.add(c,c)

   the label for d would be

   ('add', ('mul', ('share', 1), ('share', 2)),
           ('mul', ('share', 1), ('share', 2)))

   The labels grow exponentially in the length of dependencies! This
   length roughly corresponds to the old notion of communication
   rounds. One could trim the labels when it is known that old labels
   aren't needed anymore.

   Consider this program:

   x = rt.add(a,b)
   y = rt.add(a,b)

   Here x and y have the same label and are thus indistinguishable
   when sent over the network. Since x and y have the exact same
   history, and so represent the same value, this ought to cause no
   trouble.

* Have an option which will make things run more or less sequentially
   For example: no parallelism would mean that all operations queue up
   and wait on each other, semi-parallelism could mean that different
   operations (mul and greater_than, say) queue up, and full
   parallelism would run with no restrictions except those imposed by
   the program itself.

* Merge GMPIntegerFieldElement and IntegerFieldElement?
   The two classes are almost identical and should be merged.

* Define and document a semantics for operations on deferred shares
   Variables containing deferred shares should be immutable.
   Operations like add and mul already obey this: add(x,y) does not
   change x and y. The open method changes its argument.

* Allow players to be started in any order
   At the moment one must start players in descending order, 3-2-1,
   but it would be nice if they could be started in any order. Player
   1 would still try and connect to player 2 and 3, but if they cannot
   be reached, then player 1 should retry a bit later.

* More robust handling of port allocation
   Players should check if the wanted port number is free, and if not,
   then retry after a timeout. Ports can be occupied if a player is
   killed, for then the ports normally end up in the TIME_WAIT state
   for 60 seconds.

* Rework port number magic
   Instead of requiring each player to use the correct port number for
   outgoing connections, we could let player 1 act as a coordinator.
   This one player would be required to listen on a well-known port,
   but the other players would not -- they simply listen to some port
   chosen by the OS and announce that to player 1, which in turn let
   the other players know.

   When everybody has been informed of everybody elses presence, the
   protocol execution can begin as normal with pair-wise connections
   between the players. So the coordinator is only used in a setup
   phase and wont become a bottleneck later.

* Support preprocessing
   With the use of deferreds, some amount of preprocessing is already
   being done before the protocol begins proper. But this kind of
   preprocessing does nothing for the double auction case where the
   program branches during execution.

   So a general mechanism is needed by which one can preprocess a
   given number of multiplications, comparisons, etc.

   A possible design could be one in which this is done dynamically:
   when a protocol is executed, preprocessed stuff is taken from a
   pool as needed. If the pool runs dry, then more stuff is generated
   online. At the end of a run, the program will know how much stuff
   was needed -- this information can then be dumped to a file.

   A separate preprocessing script can read this information from the
   file and produce another file with a pickled pool of preprocessed
   stuff.

* Use a logging module
   Use a better technique for debug output than scattering print
   statements around the source code.
